(rousing music)
(fire crackling)
(ambient music)
(fortune teller speaking
in foreign language)
(metal clanging)
(fortune teller speaking
in foreign language)
(man screaming)
(creatures screeching)
(fortune teller speaking
in foreign language)
(dramatic music)
(air whooshing)
(metal clanging)
(priest speaking in
foreign language)
Thou art He that took me out
of my mother's womb,
my prayer shall
be always of thee.
I am become, as it were,
a monster unto many.
But my sure faith
and trust is in thee.
(soft tense music)
(communion host breaks)
May God protect you
and your husbands in battle.
- Beautiful sermon, how
he talked about new life.
(soft chuckle)
- Mistress May, what a
blessing to see you here,
glowing like the Virgin
Mother herself. (chuckles)
It brings such joy to my heart.
Aw, may the Lord bring my Seamus
and your husband home soon.
Mm-hmm.
(bell tolling)
God is good.
Thank you.
Blessed day, Mistress.
(chain clinking)
[Anne] Won't she miss it?
- She has plenty.
We have nothing.
(birds chirping)
(eerie music)
(Anne humming)
(brooding music)
Come Anne.
Whatcha looking at?
(brooding music continues)
(pensive music)
(footsteps continue plodding)
(twine rustling)
(Anne sniffing)
(pensive music continues)
(seeds rattling)
(hair rustling)
Oh.
(water sloshing)
(knife thudding)
(fire crackling)
(pensive music continues)
Mm, mm.
(dish clanking)
(fire crackling)
- (slurping)
- [Anne] Hmpf.
(fire crackling)
[Morwen] Hmm, mm.
(soup sloshing)
(fire crackling)
(Morwen exhales)
(waves crashing)
(fire crackling)
(dish clanking)
(utensil clanking)
(Morwen exhales)
(crickets chirping)
(brooding music)
- [children] The fox fell out
on a chilly night.
He prayed to the moon
to give him light.
The fox and his wife
without any strife,
cut up the goose with
a fork and knife.
And the little
ones chewed on the bones,
and bones, and bones.
(children laughing)
(tender music)
(waves lapping)
- [child's voice]
Anne, come back.
(dramatic music)
(crickets chirping)
(plants rustling)
- [Morwen] You have a way with
this stubborn ground.
Oh, I could never get
anything to grow here.
These beet roots will
be popular at market.
We can barter them
and this.
(chain clinking)
Will you be selling that one?
Aye.
And we'll have bread
to eat tonight.
(feet shuffling)
(Morwen exhales)
Be safe.
- My son chose well
when he picked a wife.
You're my jewel.
(Anne laughs)
I'm always careful.
I know the roads.
(eerie music)
(leaves rustling)
(Anne humming)
[Seamus] Anne?
(footsteps plodding)
(soft music)
There you are.
(wistful music)
Seamus, you're back.
I'm here, my love.
(Anne laughs)
(brooding music)
(Seamus groaning)
(Seamus screaming)
(brooding music continues)
Help me.
Pain.
(dramatic music)
(Anne gasps and exhales)
(Morwen chuckles)
(pot clanking)
- Is this all?
- Aye.
Except...
Oh, Morwen.
(kissing)
(vegetable thuds)
(Anne laughs)
(knife rasping and thudding)
(Anne exhales)
(knife thuds)
(grim music)
Oh.
(Morwen exhales)
I...
(vegetable thuds)
- Damn.
(dishes clanking)
No matter. I don't mind.
I've got my sweet Anne.
Be patient. The
Virgin will provide.
The Lady is merciful.
She will to it that we have
what we need to
fill our bellies.
(fire crackling)
- And I pray, too, that
Seamus will return soon.
I thought he would be
here with us again by now.
(Anne sighs)
(pensive music)
It's been so long.
- He'll have to put an end
to this curse of poverty
and become a wealthy man.
Have faith in his
ambition. (laughs)
This war will make us rich.
I do.
(waves lapping)
(birds squawking)
(grass rustling)
(man singing faintly)
* Aye, aye, this night is long *
* I most unjustly *
* Sorrow, and mourn, and fast *
(water pattering)
(waves lapping)
* Aye, this night is long *
* I most unjustly *
(bag rustling)
(fish thuds)
* Sorrow, and mourn, and fast *
(man singing faintly)
(pensive music)
Jago.
(waves lapping)
(pensive music continues)
Hello, Anne.
Back from Tewkesbury?
I am.
Are the wars over then?
- Over for me.
(waves lapping)
- Then it's good
to see you again.
But where is my husband?
(waves lapping)
(pensive music continues)
(Jago slurping)
(soup sloshing)
Where is my son?
(Jago sucking fingers)
(fire crackling)
Rivers of blood,
(pensive music)
bodies,
his Lord's liberty
and maintenance, they all look the same,
mangled and dirtied.
(fire crackling)
(pensive music continues)
Seamus and I, we,
we had to leave.
You've known me.
I'm a fisherman, not a soldier.
What army does Richard have?
Armies and fishermen
forced to square
against some unknown man
at the other end of battle,
and one of us'll kill the other,
and it won't change anything.
It won't cease the fighting,
but the crown
would've lost a son
who would've grown her
crops and fed her people
if only she'd give him
a chance to come home.
You abandoned your post.
(pensive music continues)
We agreed we would leave
at night while the
captains were asleep.
But we were,
we were beset by thieves.
They beat us,
took what little we had.
They killed Seamus
nigh on.
We should never have
left this place,
this little cove.
(fire crackling)
He was my dearest friend.
You saw him die?
Aye.
- (exhales) How,
how did it happen?
- Uh, it's too cruel for
a woman's ears, Morwen.
- Oh, I'm no stranger
to cruelty, pup.
My heart is already hard.
They split him neck to navel.
(Seamus screaming)
(blood squelching)
(Anne whimpers)
(pensive music)
(fire crackling)
I am sorry.
(somber music)
(waves lapping)
(somber music continues)
(Anne sobbing)
Ah, Seamus.
You were my heart.
My chest is empty. (sobbing)
(birds chirping)
(pensive music)
(grass rustling)
(Jago humming)
(net rustling)
(Jago continues humming)
(brooding music)
(reins clattering)
(horse nickering)
(hoof thudding)
(voices whispering)
(Anne exhales)
(birds chirping)
(pensive music)
My son is not coming back,
and you, left childless,
a girl with no husband. (laughs)
He's gone into dirt
with the rest of them.
We're truly alone.
(pensive music continues)
What, (sighs)
what, what will we do now?
(bag rustling)
(Morwen exhales)
I, I wanted to see him again.
(clothes rustling)
(pensive music continues)
(floor creaking)
(grass rustling)
(pensive music continues)
(waves lapping)
(boat creaking)
(waves continue lapping)
(dramatic music)
(brooding music)
(pensive music)
(knife rasping)
(castaway grunting)
(body thudding)
(birds chirping)
It's safe. Come.
(footsteps plodding)
(pensive music continues)
(coins clinking)
More dead?
Yeah, drowned like the others.
(coins clinking)
- Have mercy on those
that crave thy mercy.
Have grace unto them
and make it such
that they may, too,
enjoy thy grace.
Go forward to life.
(bag rustling)
- Wasting your
prayers on the wicked.
God has laid his
judgment on 'em.
(footsteps plodding)
(door clattering)
(feet shuffling)
(hand thuds)
(items clattering)
God is smiling at us
to send such good luck.
(boot rasping)
(pensive music continues)
(boot thuds)
(clothes rustling)
(pensive music continues)
(Anne sighs)
He smashed those pirates against
our rocks for our benefit.
Yes.
(Morwen grunting)
(body rasping)
- I'll trade these
trinkets in market
and be back before
the sun is set.
(footsteps plodding)
(pensive music continues)
(pot clanking)
(soup burbling)
(soup sloshing)
(fire crackling)
(utensil clanking)
(birds chirping and squawking)
(pensive music continues)
(birds continue squawking)
(horse neighing)
(brooding music)
(feet pattering)
(brooding music continues)
(birds squawking)
- [Anne] I think
there's a man out there.
- Silly child, there's
no one out there, hon.
Sometimes I think you're
a bit mad (laughs)
like your mother before you.
(brooding music continues)
(Morwen exhales)
Go on. Rest, child.
(pensive music)
(birds chirping)
(grass rustling)
(Jago humming)
(footsteps plodding)
Hello, Anne.
Are you well?
(grass rustling)
Where are you walking to?
To church.
- Ah, I've lost my taste
for pretty sermons.
(grass rustling)
But don't you know you
shouldn't be walking alone here?
There are bad men on this road.
They would steal a girl like you
- away from home.
- I know the path.
I'll be safe.
I'll walk with you.
Perhaps you'd like the company.
- I shouldn't walk with a
man who's not my husband.
Your husband's dead.
(pensive music)
(grass rustling)
- Walk well enough
without your help.
(Jago sniffs)
(pensive music continues)
(water sloshing)
(birds chirping)
(item clattering)
(grass rustling)
Hello, Morwen.
What a fine day.
(grass rustling)
Sun is nearly shining,
and the breeze is gentle.
- Come, Anne.
(brooding music)
(grass rustling)
Hag.
(knife thudding)
(hands rasping)
(footsteps plodding)
(knife thudding)
- You were at
church all morning?
- [Anne] Mm-hmm.
(food sizzling)
(fire crackling)
And he followed you there?
[Anne] Yes.
(Morwen groans)
(fire crackling)
I never liked that boy.
(Morwen laughs)
(pensive music)
He always had a
jealous look about him,
(knife thudding)
even as a child.
(footsteps plodding)
(pensive music continues)
(birds chirping)
Always following
Seamus everywhere.
I saw the angry look in his eye,
parentless rat.
(birds chirping)
(pensive music continues)
(laughs) Look like a stray dog,
always sniffing
around for scraps.
(rain pattering)
(pensive music continues)
(footsteps plodding)
Greed, has Jago's heart,
I'm sure of it.
- It's...
(knife thudding)
We were such close friends
before I married Seamus.
I, I had forgotten
our time together.
I, I do not think
him an evil man.
- (laughs) Evil is
not always obvious.
(fire crackling)
(pensive music)
This is a time of war.
There is a lot that
spreads all around us.
Demons walk the earth
in the shape of men.
(hooves clopping)
(metal clanging)
Stay with me, and you'll
have nothing to fear.
With me, you'll never be cursed.
But if you disobey me,
the knights of hell will
drag you down into the pit,
and there'll be nothing
I can do to save you.
(hooves clopping)
(horse neighing)
I, I promise.
Oh, oh.
(fire crackling)
(birds chirping)
(footsteps plodding)
(person speaking faintly)
(door creaking)
Ah, Anne, come.
(door clattering)
Friar Penros has found
us on the road home.
- Friar Penros.
- Hello, Anne.
- Sorry we don't have
more to offer you.
This is the last of our stores.
These are difficult times.
- Course, uh, but do you
have anything to drink?
My throat is parched.
Hmm.
(cup thuds)
(Friar Penros laughs)
(liquid sloshing)
Bless you.
(footsteps plodding)
Mm.
(lips smacking)
(water sloshing)
(cup thuds)
Mm.
(fire crackling)
Forgive me, Lord, my hunger.
Blessed us, oh, Lord,
and these, thy gifts,
which we are about to receive
from thy bounty through
Christ our Lord, amen.
- Amen.
Mm, brings joy to my heart
to see two such pious women.
(pensive music)
(cup thuds)
(lips smacking)
I'll show you a
special relic,
so you can share in the
glory of my pilgrimage.
(box and items clattering)
(pensive music continues)
Just put that back.
(bottle thuds)
Here we are.
- Oh, how beautiful.
(pensive music continues)
Open it.
(lid clanks)
[Anne] Oh.
Do not touch, child. Careful.
These trinkets are more
valuable than you can imagine.
- [Anne] (laughs) It's
wonderful, Father.
- For our Lord
Jesus's blessed life
from a Bethlehem dove.
Three silver pieces,
special price for
such a faithful flock.
- We can't afford
such beautiful gifts.
We don't have any money.
(lid thuds)
Very well then.
(box clattering)
(footsteps plodding)
(lips smacking)
- Who else knows you've
returned from your travels?
- You are but the first.
(utensil clanking)
- I'm sure you're eager
to continue your journey.
- Aye, I'm just passing
through. I am London bound.
Well, thank you for
your hospitality.
I must continue my journey
before too much of
the day has passed.
(items clattering)
(pensive music)
A blessing before I go.
(Friar Penros
inhales and exhales)
The Lord shall preserve
thee from all evil.
Yea, it is even he that
shall keep thy soul.
Glory to the Father as
it was in the beginning.
Lord have mercy upon us, our
Father, which art in heaven,
and lead us not into
temptation, amen.
- Amen.
(pensive music)
- Beware of heretical
thoughts, my friend.
Those lies do nothing for you
but illuminate the hideous
truths that surround us.
Stay in the warm, blind bliss.
(dramatic music)
(Friar Penros grunts)
(knife rasping)
(Friar Penros screams)
No, no.
(Friar Penros grunts)
(knife rasping)
(Morwen screams)
No.
(body thudding)
(Friar Penros coughing)
[Morwen] Move aside.
(Anne whimpering)
(body rasping)
(Anne gasps)
(Anne whimpering and panting)
What did you do?
He was making a mess.
- Are, are you mad? He's,
he's a, he's a man of God.
He's a holy man.
Ah, he wasn't a, a man of God.
He was a charlatan and a fool.
He was a false pretender.
These items will feed
us through the winter.
(Anne sobbing)
You understand.
You, you understand.
(pensive music)
(Anne breathing heavily)
(brooding music)
(Anne and Morwen grunting)
(thunder rumbling)
(both grunting)
(body thudding)
Come on.
(Morwen grunting)
(water sloshing)
(brooding music continues)
(cloth rasping)
(grass rustling)
(water sloshing)
(brooding music continues)
(cloth rasping)
(thunder rumbling)
(brooding music continues)
There was talk around
Friar Penros, you know,
that he was a philander.
His heart had been claimed by
Mammon, by the lusty feels
for material wealth,
and shiny objects,
and the soft gaze of
foolish young girls.
He was false.
Morwen.
Yes.
- I don't know if I can
be as strong as you, as,
as ruthless.
I do not know if we
did the right thing.
- All that matters
is that we survive.
You must be very cautious
not to give in to sin,
to lust.
I couldn't bear the
thought of you in hell,
never to be reunited
with my son,
your sweet husband in
Heaven where he sits now.
You must be vigilant.
You must be pious.
You will be reunited with him.
Isn't that what you want?
- Of course.
(fire crackling)
(Morwen laughs)
- Well, mm.
(pensive music)
Mm, you're a good girl.
(birds chirping)
(pensive music continues)
(rug thuds)
(metal rasping)
(pensive music continues)
[Anne] Morwen.
(birds chirping)
(animal squealing)
(brooding music)
(birds chirping)
(brooding music continues)
(animal screeching)
(footsteps plodding)
(birds squawking)
(footsteps continue plodding)
(bag rustling)
(pensive music)
(grass rustling)
(dramatic music)
(horses neighing)
(hooves clopping)
(sword rasping)
(Anne screaming)
(hooves clopping)
(Anne gasping)
(voices whispering)
(Anne grunts)
(Anne gasping)
- [Jago] Anne.
(feet pattering)
- Jago.
- Hey.
- Did you see him?
- Did I see who?
I, I, I think he is a demon.
He's, he's not
- from this world.
- Ah, there's-
- He's following me.
- no one there.
There's no one there.
- It, it's just us here.
- No, he was there.
He, he wears a, a suit of armor,
and he, he rides a white horse.
- Why would a
demon need a horse?
It's just some soldier traveling
through to Manor Trematon,
someone made of flesh and blood.
Come. Sit down.
(Anne breathing heavily)
- Anne.
- Yeah.
You found me.
What?
- You were scared, and
you came to find me.
I'm glad you came.
What is it?
I'm afraid.
(Jago laughs)
Afraid.
- Don't mock me, afraid
of what might happen.
I don't want to be marked
by a knight of hell.
I don't want to be cursed
and dragged into the pit.
Cursed, Anne? Are you a child?
- Morwen told me that-
- Ah, that hag.
Doesn't know anything,
just trying to scare you.
Hell is real.
Aye.
I've seen hell.
It's 50 leagues in that
direction, and it is real.
(pensive music)
Hell is the war between the
rich men and spilt blood.
But this, Anne,
this is also real.
I want you, Anne,
and you want me.
Come to me tonight.
There'll be no
demons to haunt you.
Meet me where we used to play
as children. Do you remember?
It's just us now.
Come to me tonight.
(pensive music continues)
(grass rustling)
(person humming)
(grass continues rustling)
(brooding music)
(flesh squelching)
(brooding music continues)
This is my dream.
Go.
(dramatic music)
(crickets chirping)
(bed creaking)
Are you awake?
(clothes rustling)
(crickets continue chirping)
(floor creaking)
(feet shuffling)
(door creaking)
(door clattering)
(Morwen inhales)
(bedding rustling)
(footsteps plodding)
(animal bellowing)
(eerie music)
(knife rasping)
(fire crackling)
- You came.
(pensive music)
I shouldn't have.
I shouldn't be here.
(pensive music continues)
(birds chirping)
(waves lapping)
Wake up. (laughs)
I have to go back.
Come and live with me.
- Come live with me.
- I can't.
- Why can't you?
(pensive music continues)
She needs me.
- That woman can
fend for herself.
She frightens me.
(leaves rustling)
(pensive music continues)
- [Jago] She will drain
every bit of life out of you.
I can see it clear as day.
Come live with me, and
I will make you happy.
(footsteps plodding)
(voices whispering)
(clothes rustling)
(bedding rustling)
Where have you been?
(pensive music)
I wanted some fresh air.
You know I'd die without you.
I think you're my angel
sent to care for me
in my son's absence.
We're more precious
to each other
than all the treasures
in the world.
I don't want to be alone.
I know.
(Morwen inhales)
Know I'll take care of you.
(pensive music continues)
(waves lapping)
(birds chirping)
(pensive music)
(cart clattering)
(cart creaking)
(pensive music continues)
(footsteps plodding)
(crickets chirping)
- What are you doing here
in the middle of the cold?
(footsteps plodding)
(traveler grunts)
(dramatic music)
(knife rasping)
(blood squelching)
- Help me. What are you
doing just standing there?
Help me.
(traveler gagging)
(footsteps plodding)
(both grunting)
Okay. (panting)
He may have valuables
in his pocket. Look.
(footsteps plodding)
(Morwen exhales)
(footsteps continue plodding)
(bag rustling)
(items clattering)
(pensive music continues)
(footsteps plodding)
What's this?
Nothing, it's just
a child's joy.
(bag rustling)
(coins clinking)
(pensive music continues)
(bell tolling)
(coins continue clinking)
(eerie music)
(cloth rasping)
(voices whispering)
(knight exhales)
(dramatic music)
(sword thuds)
(voices whispering)
(knight breathing heavily)
(nuns singing in Latin)
(baby vocalizing)
(pensive music)
(baby crying)
(pensive music continues)
(nuns singing in Latin)
(baby continues crying)
(door clattering)
* Amen *
(clothes rustling)
(pensive music continues)
- [Priest] God
protect you, child.
(footsteps plodding)
(pensive music continues)
(baby vocalizing)
Huh, beautiful.
Yeah.
Morwen.
(baby vocalizing)
(pensive music continues)
(footsteps plodding)
(May laughs)
A gift.
(footsteps plodding)
(item clattering)
(hand knocking)
[Jago] Anne.
Stay here, child.
[Jago] Anne, are ya in there?
(door clattering and creaking)
[Morwen] What do you want?
(door creaking and clattering)
What, you're deaf now, too?
It's not you I
want, is it? Anne.
She came back to me, pup.
Find yourself another
bitch to fuck.
- Ah, move, you sorry
woman, or I'll push through.
(hand thuds)
- Go away.
(pensive music)
- She's young, and strong,
and she can bear a child,
and you would take
that from her?
- (laughs) Yes,
1,000 times, yes.
What joy has a husband or
child ever brought to me?
None,
(saliva sputtering)
only the grief of
losing them too soon
and suffering a long and
angry life after they've gone.
Yes, I would take that from her.
Yes, I would live
through this winter.
Yes, (laughs) I would deny
you the pleasure of her body.
Ah, to hell with you. (groans)
- And I will take you
straight to hell, fool.
(footsteps plodding)
(pensive music continues)
Anne, I'll wait for you.
I'll wait for you, Anne.
(Jago spitting)
(pensive music continues)
(door creaking and clattering)
(fire crackling)
You're upset.
Oh, sweet child, sweet
child, you're upset.
(Anne exhales)
This is our fate.
It is not your destiny. (laughs)
This is where we belong.
You are my son's wife.
I am your family.
I am your responsibility.
It is God's law.
(Morwen sniffing)
(wind howling)
(fire crackling)
(pensive music)
(Anne sobbing)
Mother, my heart is torn,
and I am hungry all the time
for things that I have lost.
Why would you leave
me here to starve?
(pensive music continues)
Forgive me.
I have an unruly tongue.
Lord God, I am your
servant, always.
But I'm afraid.
What were you trying to tell me?
(pensive music continues)
(Anne sighs)
(leaves rustling)
(pestle thudding)
(pestle rasping and clanking)
(water sloshing)
(kettle thuds)
Morwen, are you awake?
(Morwen snoring)
(fire crackling)
(door creaking and clattering)
(waves lapping)
(pensive music continues)
(birds chirping)
I heard of a man
who saw a beautiful woman
walking to church every day.
(water sloshing)
(gentle music)
Nobody knew where she was from,
but the man fell
in love with her.
Matha E. Chawalla was his
name, and he loved to sing.
Finally, one day,
he followed her,
and he sang a song
to her as she walked,
and he was never seen again.
(birds chirping and squawking)
What happened to him?
- Well, I think he
followed her into the sea.
So she was a mermaid.
(Jago laughs)
Maybe I'll drag you
down into the water.
(Anne laughs)
(gentle music continues)
(chair clattering)
(fire crackling)
Anne?
(Morwen sighs)
(door clattering)
(feet shuffling)
(Morwen sighs)
(hands rasping)
(footsteps plodding)
(wind rustling)
Anne?
(footsteps plodding)
(wind rustling)
Anne.
(footsteps continue plodding)
(pensive music)
Are you out here?
(horse neighing)
(brooding music)
(hooves clopping)
(brooding music continues)
(feet pattering)
(horse nickering)
(brooding music continues)
(birds squawking)
(hooves clopping)
(brooding music continues)
(metal clanging)
(hooves continue clopping)
(metal rasping)
(brooding music)
(knight exhales)
(Morwen breathing heavily)
Anne.
(pensive music)
(hooves clopping)
(pensive music continues)
(footsteps plodding)
(birds squawking)
(footsteps continue plodding)
(dramatic music)
(metal clanging)
(brooding music)
(footsteps plodding)
(armor clinking)
(dramatic music)
(sword rasping)
(birds squawking)
(brooding music)
(knight grunting)
(armor clinking)
(knight groaning)
(armor clattering)
(knight continues groaning)
(knife rasping)
(knight screaming)
(knight coughing and gasping)
(dramatic music continues)
(armor clinking)
(knight groaning)
(armor clattering)
(dramatic music continues)
(water splashing)
(Morwen grunting)
(knight groaning)
(knight coughing)
(Morwen continues grunting)
(water splashing)
(pensive music)
(Morwen grunts)
(knife rasping)
(bag rustling)
(coins clinking)
(knife rasping)
(voices whispering)
(Morwen grunting)
(waves lapping)
(birds chirping)
- [Jago] What thoughts
have you in mind?
Just thoughts, nothing more.
- Share them with me.
(fire crackling)
I think of demons.
[Jago] Wow.
- Yesterday, in the
sermon, the father spoke
of the demon Mammon,
who lusts for earthly
pleasures and material wealth,
and I looked on Mistress May
happy with her newborn child
who wears a silver cross
fashioned for his tiny neck,
and, and I was
filled with a terrifying greed.
(birds chirping)
(fire crackling)
I want what she has.
I want her wealth,
and her comfort, and
her happy rosy cheeks,
and her fat baby.
Well, why shouldn't you?
- Perhaps it's you
who are the demon.
(pensive music)
(Jago grunting)
(Anne laughs)
(fire crackling)
(pensive music continues)
You thinking on him?
It was always the three of us,
and now everything has
changed so suddenly.
Aye, everything has changed.
Leave her.
Come live with me.
I'm all she has.
- I need a wife, and
you have no husband.
Come live with me.
You don't understand.
But I want you now.
(gentle music)
You are a greedy man.
Aye.
(birds chirping)
(gentle music continues)
(footsteps plodding)
(birds continue chirping)
- Morwen.
(door creaking)
I must speak with you.
(door clattering)
I have decided I'm going to
live with Jago and be his wife.
This is what I want.
Do you hear me?
Morwen?
I have always obeyed
you in all things.
I followed your commands
even when the things you
did made my stomach turn.
I was content to
stay by your side.
You were my husband's mother.
But Seamus is gone.
- (dramatic music)
- Don't say his name,
slut, whore.
You'll burn with
the rest of them.
Don't you see what you're doing?
- Morwen, I-
- You'll abandon me and
condemn me to death,
and the knights of
hell will come for you,
and I will cheer for them.
You cannot abandon your duty
to me without consequences.
They will pull you down to hell.
(Anne whimpering)
(dramatic music continues)
(footsteps plodding)
(brooding music)
- I won't live under
her thumb, (gasping)
not for one more moment.
I'll do what I want.
(wind howling)
(brooding music)
(brooding music continues)
(dramatic music)
(armor clattering)
(sword rasping)
I'm sorry.
(air whooshing)
(sword rasping)
(Anne inhales and exhales)
(fire crackling)
(birds squawking)
(fire continues crackling)
(birds chirping)
(Jago sniffs)
[Jago] It's cold and early,
too early. (coughs)
- Today is Sunday.
- Is it?
- Come to the sermon
this afternoon with me.
God's words will
soothe your soul.
(Jago laughs)
(gentle music)
- You think my soul
needs soothing?
I will make you a pious man.
- May it please you
to prosper, Zion,
to build up the
walls of Jerusalem.
Then you will delight
in the sacrifices
of the righteous
in burnt offerings
offered whole.
Then bulls will be
offered on your altar.
(feet thudding)
(pensive music continues)
(priest singing in Latin)
(waves lapping)
- [Children] The fox and his
wife, without any strife,
cut the goose with
a fork and knife.
They never had such
supper in their life.
The little ones
chewed on the bones,
the bones, the bones.
(bodies thudding)
(children laughing)
(waves lapping)
(gentle music)
You failed us. I win.
- I did not.
- You're a liar.
Stop. It was me.
I failed us.
(fist thudding)
(Jago groans)
(pensive music)
(waves lapping)
(footsteps plodding)
(waves continue lapping)
(pensive music)
(footsteps plodding)
Come on. Sun is down.
We should leave.
Just a small prayer for Morwen
and for Seamus.
- Seamus is dead
and in the dirt.
I told you.
Rotherham's men smashed his
head in, left him to die,
and I don't want to
hear any more about him.
- I thought it was the thieves
who split him neck to navel.
- What does it matter,
Anne? Man's gone.
(pensive music)
They found our camp.
Seamus tried to fight.
(air whooshing)
And he was a fool.
Tell me.
You must tell me the truth.
Truth?
I have always loved you, Anne.
Do you not know that?
And now you can be
mine, truly mine.
We can leave Seamus
behind, his mother behind.
Our lives are ours to live.
We don't owe anyone anything.
- Tell me the truth, or I
will never speak to you again.
(pensive music continues)
He changed while we was away.
His ambition, it grew and grew,
and he was unafraid.
(clothes rustling)
Seamus, don't.
(knife rasping)
(soldier groans)
- [Jago] War bred in him
(knife rasping)
an appetite.
- (whistling) Come
before it gets too dark.
(clothes rustling)
(Seamus gasping)
He's got a purse on him.
(bag rustling)
What's wrong with you?
Huh?
(strap snaps)
(coins clinking)
Scared of a dead man, huh?
(Seamus laughs)
(Seamus exhaling)
(horse neighing)
(birds squawking)
(brooding music)
(metal clanging)
(leaves rustling)
(creature growling)
(fist thudding)
(soldier groans)
(creature growling)
(dramatic music)
(fighters grunting)
(hands thudding)
(knife thudding)
(Seamus screaming)
(knife rasping)
(Seamus grunts)
(knight gagging)
(hand thudding)
(creature continues growling)
(knife rasping)
(Seamus grunting)
(pensive music)
(cloth rustling)
(Morwen grunting)
(Morwen gasping)
(pensive music continues)
(voices whispering)
(brooding music)
(helmet clattering)
(Morwen grunting)
(voices whispering)
(helmet clattering)
(Morwen grunting)
(Morwen gasps)
(pensive music)
(knees thudding)
(Morwen whimpering)
No.
Seamus, don't.
Seamus. (whimpering)
(creature growling)
(armor clattering)
You came back to me. (sobbing)
You came back to me.
Ah, Seamus.
(fire crackling)
(brooding music)
(voices whispering)
(brooding music continues)
(creature growling)
(dramatic music)
(Seamus screaming)
(hands thudding)
(Seamus continues screaming)
- [Seamus] Help.
It won't come off.
(Seamus screaming)
(fire crackling)
[Jago] I really had no choice.
(Anne exhales)
(pensive music)
You left him behind.
(sighs) I had no choice.
(Anne exhales)
Morwen was right.
You always were a jealous boy.
- Stay.
- Let go of me.
(footsteps plodding)
(wind howling)
(crickets chirping)
(Anne sighs)
(footsteps continue plodding)
(pensive music)
(wind howling)
(footsteps plodding)
Father.
Father?
(voices whispering)
(Anne gasps)
(eerie music)
No, leave me alone.
(knight exhales)
(voices whispering)
Leave me alone.
(dramatic music)
(hooves clopping)
(animals screeching)
(hooves continue clopping)
(footsteps plodding)
(pensive music)
(hand knocking)
Morwen, let me in.
We, we are not safe here.
(door creaking)
(rain pattering)
Morwen.
(grass rustling)
(rain pattering)
(pensive music continues)
(dramatic music)
(Anne screaming)
- [Morwen] Anne, Anne,
Anne, get it off.
Anne, Anne, help.
Help me. I can't get it off.
Morwen.
- [Morwen] (groans)
Anne, please.
- Are you trying to scare
me back into submission?
[Morwen] Have pity on me.
- So I come back to your side.
- I can't get it off.
It hurts.
You're being foolish.
- [Morwen] No.
(fire roaring)
(screams) No, it's
stuck, it's stuck.
Horrible.
(fire roaring)
Horrible, horrible.
Get it off, get it off.
- Hold still.
- God, Anne, it's hurting me.
(Morwen screaming)
(Anne gasping)
Anne, Anne.
(door squeaking)
(feet pattering)
(pensive music)
(cross clattering)
Anne, Anne.
Be still.
- [Morwen] (screams)
No, I'm afraid.
- There's nothing
to be afraid of.
(cross thuds)
(helmet clattering)
(rain pattering)
(Morwen groaning and sobbing)
(pensive music)
I need you.
Please.
I'm sorry.
(Anne breathing heavily)
Now you really are a demon.
[Morwen] Forgive me.
Forgive me.
No way.
(Morwen whimpering)
(rain pattering)
(metal clanging)
(voices whispering)
(fire crackling)
(air whooshing)
Ah, come, come, come.
(wind howling)
Here.
(pensive music)
(table clattering)
(Anne gasping)
(rain pattering)
(hand thudding)
(brooding music)
(air whooshing)
(rain pattering)
(hand thudding)
(brooding music continues)
(Morwen whimpering)
(pensive music)
Shh.
(pensive music continues)
(table clattering)
(door clattering and creaking)
(pensive music continues)
(voices whispering)
(helmet clanking)
(voices continue whispering)
- [Morwen] It's
cursed. Don't touch it.
(voices whispering)
(pensive music continues)
No.
It has no power over me.
(Morwen whimpering)
(pensive music continues)
There is nothing to fear.
(waves lapping)
(pensive music continues)
(birds chirping)
(waves continue lapping)
[Jago] Anne.
- Wait.
- What do you want?
I was looking for you.
I couldn't find you.
What do you want?
You, Anne, I want you.
(waves lapping)
(gentle music)
I will not be yours or hers.
I don't belong to anyone.
All your talk of demons, Anne,
I'm not the one hurting you.
(clothes rustling)
Come back.
Anne.
Go then. Hag.
(waves lapping)
(birds chirping)
(wind howling)
(footsteps plodding)
Come inside.
(door clattering and creaking)
Here.
(pestle thudding)
This will help you sleep.
(liquid sloshing)
I'll be back before
the sun is down.
[Morwen] Yes, Anne.
(door creaking and clattering)
(footsteps plodding)
(birds chirping)
(wind howling)
(voices whispering)
(pensive music)
(chain clinking)
(voices continue whispering)
(lid clattering)
(pensive music continues)
(waves lapping)
* Merry it is while
summer it lasts *
* With song of birds *
* But now draws near the wind's
blast and harsh weather *
* Aye, aye, aye,
this night is long *
* And I most unjustly *
* Sorrow, and mourn, and fast *